# Weather-Forecast-R-Shiny-App

This applications warns the user about drastic changes in not just the temperature, but also wind speed, humidity and pressure. The user can also look at the various visualizations to better understand the weather for the next 5 days an prepare his/her day well in advance. In our personal experience, we have seen people who are very sensitive to minor temperature fluctuations and fall sick. The app has been made specifically for Melbourne, Victoria, Australia as a proof of concept and can be extended to include other major cities in other countries as well. This application paints an overall good picture with what’s to expect in the next 5 days with respect to weather and has state-of-the-art forecasts which makes everyone’s life easier.

The data is being fetched from OpenWeather API which can be accessed here : https://openweathermap.org/ . The platform/API allows us as developers to access weather data (both current and forecasted) by using an ‘API key’ to connect to our developer account. We have used the key to connect and call the API to and from R, so that we could build up our visualizations and statistics on Shiny framework. Shiny is an open-source R package that makes it easy to build interactive web apps straight from R. We used shinyapp.io to host our webapp, as it is as simple as pushing a button to deploy the web application to cloud.

As something extra, we also implemented customized warnings which popup using the Shinyalert package in R, when there is a fluctuation in temperature of more than 3 degrees on both sides. This, we believe will help the more temperature-sensitive part of our user base to prepare for the day well in advance.
